# pneumonia-detection
After experimenting with various AI models. Found the best models and parameters to use in order to accurately detect pneumonia from a given chest x-ray image. 
# Introduction
We were given inputs of various chest X-rays. Some of which were pneumonia positive and some of which were negative. For the computer to successfully read these X-rays, we must break the image down into pixels within separate RGB color channels. The dataset contains about 2400 images. 80% of it was used to train our models and the last 20% was to test the model.
# Using a Convolutional Neural Network:
We then trained a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) with the provided dataset to help predict whether the X-ray is positive or negative. After many experimentations, it gained about 82% accuracy on the test set. We experimented with many different models and even tried to use transfer learning models which have already been trained to classify millions of different images. The transfer learning model, specifically VGG19 performed exceptionally, outputting an accuracy of about 83% which is a little bit higher than the CNN that we created from scratch. But when tried on a completely new set of field data, Both of our models' accuracy scores plummeted significantly. 
# Augmentation
This issue was mainly because the data in the field set consisted of rotated X-rays that our model had not seen before. To fix this we augmented our data by rotating our training data. After augmentation, our CNN model that we made from scratch returned to about 82% accuracy, whereas the transfer model we saw great results with earlier did not show any significant increase in accuracy and stayed at about 72%. 
# Conclusion
The transfer learning model VGG19 may not have seen an increase in accuracy because it was not efficiently trained to classify images that are significantly rotated. It has been trained continuously with non-augmented images that it may not have been able to train itself with the augmentations with the minute field dataset that was inputted. Although not shown in this code, we tried various different models to determine which would be the best. These models included KNN, Decision Trees, Logistic Regression, and a Dense Neural Network. But in the end, it was the CNN that we created that outputted the highest accuracy in determining whether the x-ray was pneumonia positive or not. This is mainly because of the hidden layers in a CNN that allow it to be able to classify images with greater accuracy. Although we got an 83% accuracy which is not the greatest, our confusion matrix stated that our model only had predicted 2 false negatives, which is good considering a false negative can cost the life of a patient. 

Credits-Project Idea/Project Help: Inspirit AI 
